CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

## Git Branch Workflow

This project adheres to [GitHub Flow](https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/).

## Development (Not for customers)

To use the test environment while developing features for this repository, set the `ONEBLINK_APPS_ENVIRONMENT` property on the `window` before using the `tenants` export:

```js
import { ... } '@oneblink/apps'
window.ONEBLINK_APPS_ENVIRONMENT = 'test'
// exports that required environment based configuration
// (e.g. the URL to make requests to the OneBlink API)
// will now use the "test" environment configuration
```

## Beta Release Process

1. Checkout `master` and get the latest code

   ```
   git checkout master && git pull
   ```

1. Bump the version and create a release commit

   ```
   npm version x.x.x-beta.x --message "[RELEASE] %s"
   ```

1. Push changes to the `master` branch

   ```
   git push && git push --tags
   ```

1. Publishes to `npm` are automated via CI on tag creation

## Production Release Process

1. Checkout `master` and get the latest code

   ```
   git checkout master && git pull
   ```

1. Run CLI `npx package-diff-summary {last-tag}`

1. Copy result (if there is one) under a _Dependencies_ heading in [Changelog](./CHANGELOG.md)

1. Update the [Changelog](./CHANGELOG.md) by replacing `Unreleased` with `x.x.x (YYYY-MM-DD)`

1. Commit changes to the `master` branch

   ```
   git add -A && git commit -m "[CHANGELOG] x.x.x"
   ```

1. Bump the version and create a release commit

   ```
   npm version x.x.x --message "[RELEASE] %s"
   ```

1. Push changes to the `master` branch

   ```
   git push && git push --tags
   ```

1. Publishes to `npm` are automated via CI on tag creation

Commit message:

ON-8879 # Added docs for running locally

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

## Git Branch Workflow

This project adheres to [GitHub Flow](https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/).

## Development (Not for customers)

### Environments

To use the test environment while developing features for this repository, set the `ONEBLINK_APPS_ENVIRONMENT` property on the `window` before using the `tenants` export:

```js
import { ... } '@oneblink/apps'
window.ONEBLINK_APPS_ENVIRONMENT = 'test'
// exports that required environment based configuration
// (e.g. the URL to make requests to the OneBlink API)
// will now use the "test" environment configuration
```

### Running Locally

This code base is written in [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) so it cannot be included locally in an application without a build step. Luckly, we have provided one :)

1. Allow NPM package to be linked

   ```sh
   npm link
   ```

1. Start the watch process for building the code when changes occur

   ```sh
   npm start
   ```

1. In your application, link to this package instead of a version on NPM

   ```sh
   npm link @oneblink/apps
   ```

## Beta Release Process

1. Checkout `master` and get the latest code

   ```
   git checkout master && git pull
   ```

1. Bump the version and create a release commit

   ```
   npm version x.x.x-beta.x --message "[RELEASE] %s"
   ```

1. Push changes to the `master` branch

   ```
   git push && git push --tags
   ```

1. Publishes to `npm` are automated via CI on tag creation

## Production Release Process

1. Checkout `master` and get the latest code

   ```
   git checkout master && git pull
   ```

1. Run CLI `npx package-diff-summary {last-tag}`

1. Copy result (if there is one) under a _Dependencies_ heading in [Changelog](./CHANGELOG.md)

1. Update the [Changelog](./CHANGELOG.md) by replacing `Unreleased` with `x.x.x (YYYY-MM-DD)`

1. Commit changes to the `master` branch

   ```
   git add -A && git commit -m "[CHANGELOG] x.x.x"
   ```

1. Bump the version and create a release commit

   ```
   npm version x.x.x --message "[RELEASE] %s"
   ```

1. Push changes to the `master` branch

   ```
   git push && git push --tags
   ```

1. Publishes to `npm` are automated via CI on tag creation
